How does react render to the string?
JSX

How do I setup a quick web server to start using react?

/project_folder
    /public
        /index.html

What does index.html need to have?
<!DOCTYPE html> - defines html5 markup
<html>
<head>
<body>
<meta charset="UTF-8" /> - inside head defines character set to utf-8.
<title> - in head

How do I run these files and see changes as they are made?
Install live server
yarn global add live-server
Run live server
live-server public
That runs the public folder.

What do you need to run React in the browser?
- React Library (We used cdn path)
- ReactDom Library (We also used cdn)
- Your script to run with ReactDOM.render(component, domElement)
- Get dom element using document.getElementById('app')

Why do you need react dom?
- React runs on vr, mobile and desktop. You need the dom library for react to
run in the browser.

What is JSX?
JavaScript XML - It is a language extension of JavaScript

What is Babel?
It is a JavaScript compiler that compiles es6, es7, and react code into es5 browser safe javascript.

Do you need babel for jsx to work?
Yes, without it JSX is not understood by the browser.

What are babel presets?
Different configurations for babel that allow you to understand different syntax.

What babel presets do you need?
react,env

What do I need to configure babel?
yarn global add babel-cli
yarn add babel-preset-env
yarn add babel-preset-react

What is the command for babel to compile?
babel (input relative bath) --out-file (output relative path) --presets=env,react --watch

What is the command for live-server to serve the compiled js?
live-server (web server root relative path)

Why do we use yarn?
Yarn insures that all of our sub dependencies use the same version every time. When we use npm it installs
immediate dependencies and their sub dependencies. Keeping track of the immediate dependencies in package.lock.
yarn.lock insures ALL dependencies use the same version on each npm install.

Why is it important to reinstall node modules each time using yarn install?
node_modules varies based on npm version and operating system so it's always better to do a fresh install on each new system.

What do I need to do when starting a new react project?
- Install node
- Install yarn
- React
- ReactDOM
- install babel-cli global
- yarn init in the project main directory.
- setup a public directory (web server root directory)
    - put in a index.html
    - put in a scripts/app.js
- yarn add the babel preset for react and env.
- create a src directory
- add to the src directory app.js (JSX and react code here, app.js in public is the compiled javascript)
- document.getElementById('app')
- ReactDOM.render(component, domElement)

What is the command to install all of the node modules?
yarn install
